COMPATIBILITY.md, before:

# Compatibility

## Default `otel` Global Providers Compatibility

Auto-instrumentation can be configured to capture the telemetry sent to the
[`otel`] default global tracer provider.

Supported versions of [`otel`]:

- `v0.14.0` to `v1.33.0`

[`otel`]: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel

## Instrumented Library Compatibility

Tracing instrumentation is provided for the following Go libraries.

- [`database/sql`](#databasesql)
- [`github.com/segmentio/kafka-go`](#githubcomsegmentiokafka-go)
- [`google.golang.org/grpc`](#googlegolangorggrpc)
- [`net/http`](#nethttp)

### database/sql

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql)

Supported version ranges:

- `go1.12` to `go1.23.4`

### github.com/segmentio/kafka-go

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/segmentio/kafka-go)

Supported version ranges:

- `v0.4.1` to `v0.4.47`

### google.golang.org/grpc

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc)

Supported version ranges:

- `v1.14.0` to `v1.69.0`

### net/http

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http)

Supported version ranges:

- `go1.12` to `go1.23.4`

Commit message:

Prevent map lookups in `traceglobal` probe when using Go >= 1.24 (#1573)
* Add pkg constraint for Go swiss maps

Do no load the traceglobal direct global API instrumentation if the Go
version being used means swiss maps back the Go map implementation. The
probe does not handle this implementation but requires map parsing.

* Add warning to COMPATIBILITY.md

* Add a changelog entry

COMPATIBILITY.md, after:

# Compatibility

## Default `otel` Global Providers Compatibility

Auto-instrumentation can be configured to capture the telemetry sent to the
[`otel`] default global tracer provider.

Supported versions of [`otel`]:

- `v0.14.0` to `v1.33.0`

**Note**: Versions of `go.opentelemetry.io/otel < v1.33.0` are not supported
when using Go >= `1.24`. See [this issue] for details.

[`otel`]: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel
[this issue]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-instrumentation/issues/1318

## Instrumented Library Compatibility

Tracing instrumentation is provided for the following Go libraries.

- [`database/sql`](#databasesql)
- [`github.com/segmentio/kafka-go`](#githubcomsegmentiokafka-go)
- [`google.golang.org/grpc`](#googlegolangorggrpc)
- [`net/http`](#nethttp)

### database/sql

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql)

Supported version ranges:

- `go1.12` to `go1.23.4`

### github.com/segmentio/kafka-go

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/segmentio/kafka-go)

Supported version ranges:

- `v0.4.1` to `v0.4.47`

### google.golang.org/grpc

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/grpc)

Supported version ranges:

- `v1.14.0` to `v1.69.0`

### net/http

[Package documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http)

Supported version ranges:

- `go1.12` to `go1.23.4`
