docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

## Configuration methods

Use the environment variables in the tables below to configure the [automatic instrumentation binary](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-instrumentation/blob/main/cli/main.go).

Alternatively, you can add support for additional or different configurations by building your own Go automatic instrumentation binary using the [OpenTelemetry Go Automatic Instrumentation package](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/auto).

## Global settings

| Environment variable        | Description                                                                | Default value |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_PID`   | Sets the PID for the Go application to be instrumented. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-target-pid` CLI flag.[^1]. | Unset         |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_EXE`   | Sets the binary for the Go application to be instrumented. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-target-exe` CLI flag.[^1]. | Unset         |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_GLOBAL`       | Records telemetry from the OpenTelemetry default global implementation. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-global-impl` CLI flag.    | `false`       |
| `OTEL_LOG_LEVEL`            | Sets the log level. Supported values: `none`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-logLevel` CLI flag. | `info`        |

[^1]: One of `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_EXE` or `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_PID` are required to be set, unless this information is passed directly as CLI arguments.

## Resources

| Environment variable        | Description                                                                                                                                                                            | Default value |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`         | Sets the value of the [service.name](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/resource/README.md#service) resource attribute. If `service.name` is provided in `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`, the value of `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` takes precedence. |               |
| `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`  | Key-value pairs to be used as resource attributes. See [Resource SDK](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md#specifying-resource-information-via-an-environment-variable) for details. | See [Resource semantic conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/resource/README.md#semantic-attributes-with-sdk-provided-default-value) for details. |

## Instrumentation options

| Environment variable                | Description                                            | Default value |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_INCLUDE_DB_STATEMENT` | Sets whether to include SQL queries in the trace data. |               |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_PARSE_DB_STATEMENT` | Sets whether to parse the SQL statement for trace data, setting `db.operation.name`. Only valid if `OTEL_GO_AUTO_INCLUDE_DB_STATEMENT` is also set. |               |

## Traces exporter

| Environment variable                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Default value |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER`                   | Comma-separated list of propagators. Supported values: `otlp`, `zipkin`, `console`, `logging`, `none`. See [the OpenTelemetry specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.35.0/specification/configuration/sdk-environment-variables.md#exporter-selection) for details. | `otlp`        |
| `OTEL_SPAN_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_LENGTH_LIMIT` | Maximum allowed attribute value size.                                                                                                                                                                        | No limit      |
| `OTEL_SPAN_ATTRIBUTE_COUNT_LIMIT`        | Maximum allowed span attribute count.                                                                                                                                                                        | `128`         |
| `OTEL_SPAN_LINK_COUNT_LIMIT`             | Maximum allowed span link count.                                                                                                                                                                             | `128`         |
| `OTEL_LINK_ATTRIBUTE_COUNT_LIMIT`        | Maximum allowed attribute per span link count.                                                                                                                                                               | `128`         |

## OTLP exporter

| Environment variable                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Default value               |
|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL`               | Defines the OTLP exporter's transport protocol. Supported values: `grpc`, `http/protobuf`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | `http/protobuf`             |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_PROTOCOL`        | Defines the OTLP exporter's transport protocol for the traces signal. Supported values: `grpc`, `http/protobuf`. The value of this environment variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL`.                                                                                                                                                                 | `http/protobuf`             |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`               | The endpoint where the exporter sends the telemetry data. The value must contain a host, and can additionally include a port, scheme, and path. You can use either `http` or `https`. The value must not contain a query string or fragment.                                                                                                                                | http/protobuf: `https://localhost:4318`, grpc: `http://localhost:4317`    |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT`        | The endpoint where the exporter sends the telemetry data. The value must contain a host, and can additionally include a port, scheme, and path. You can use either `http` or `https`. The value must not contain a query string or fragment. The value of this environment variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`.                                  | http/protobuf: `https://localhost:4318/v1/traces`, grpc: `http://localhost:4317`    |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE`               | Disables client transport security for the exporter's gRPC connection. You can use this only when an endpoint is provided without the `http` or `https` scheme.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_INSECURE`        | Disables client transport security for the exporter's gRPC connection. You can use this only when an endpoint is provided without the `http or https` scheme. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE`.                                                                                                                                  | `false`                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`                | Key-value pairs used as gRPC metadata associated with gRPC requests. The value must be represented in a format matching the W3C Baggage HTTP Header Content Format, except that additional semi-colon delimited metadata is not supported. Example value: `"key1=value1,key2=value2"`.                                                                                       | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_HEADERS`         | Key-value pairs used as gRPC metadata associated with gRPC requests. The value must be represented in a format matching the W3C Baggage HTTP Header Content Format, except that additional semi-colon delimited metadata is not supported. Example value: `"key1=value1,key2=value2"`. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`.           | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TIMEOUT`                | Maximum time in milliseconds the OTLP exporter waits for each batch export.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `10000`                   |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_TIMEOUT`         | Maximum time in milliseconds the OTLP exporter waits for each batch export. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TIMEOUT`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | `10000`                   |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION`            | The gRPC compressor that the exporter uses. Supported values: `gzip`, `none`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_COMPRESSION`     | The gRPC compressor that the exporter uses. Supported values: `gzip`, `none`. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION`.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CERTIFICATE`            | The filepath to the trusted certificate to be used when verifying a server's TLS credentials.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CERTIFICATE`     | The filepath to the trusted certificate to be used when verifying a server's TLS credentials. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CERTIFICATE`.                                                                                                                                                                                             | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE`     | The filepath to the client certificate or chain of trust for the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in the PEM format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE` | The filepath to the client certificate or chain of trust for the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in the PEM format. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE`.                                                                                                                                             | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_KEY`             | The filepath to the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in PEM format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CLIENT_KEY`      | The filepath to the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in PEM format. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_KEY`.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Unset                     |

Commit message:

Allow configuration of the resource using detectors (#2598)
* Add WithResourceDetector option

Allow users to configure a resource detector programmatically.

* Support OTEL_GO_AUTO_RESOURCE_DETECTORS env var

Allow users to configure resource detectors when using the WithEnv
option by defining detector IDs in OTEL_GO_AUTO_RESOURCE_DETECTORS.

* Update configuration docs

* Add a changelog entry

* Add resource detector example

* Update licenses

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

## Configuration methods

Use the environment variables in the tables below to configure the [automatic instrumentation binary](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-instrumentation/blob/main/cli/main.go).

Alternatively, you can add support for additional or different configurations by building your own Go automatic instrumentation binary using the [OpenTelemetry Go Automatic Instrumentation package](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/auto).

## Global settings

| Environment variable        | Description                                                                | Default value |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_PID`   | Sets the PID for the Go application to be instrumented. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-target-pid` CLI flag.[^1]. | Unset         |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_EXE`   | Sets the binary for the Go application to be instrumented. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-target-exe` CLI flag.[^1]. | Unset         |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_GLOBAL`       | Records telemetry from the OpenTelemetry default global implementation. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-global-impl` CLI flag.    | `false`       |
| `OTEL_LOG_LEVEL`            | Sets the log level. Supported values: `none`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`. As an alternative to using the environment variable, you can use the `-logLevel` CLI flag. | `info`        |

[^1]: One of `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_EXE` or `OTEL_GO_AUTO_TARGET_PID` are required to be set, unless this information is passed directly as CLI arguments.

## Resources

| Environment variable        | Description                                                                                                                                                                            | Default value |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`         | Sets the value of the [service.name](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/resource/README.md#service) resource attribute. If `service.name` is provided in `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`, the value of `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` takes precedence. |               |
| `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`  | Key-value pairs to be used as resource attributes. See [Resource SDK](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md#specifying-resource-information-via-an-environment-variable) for details. | See [Resource semantic conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/resource/README.md#semantic-attributes-with-sdk-provided-default-value) for details. |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_RESOURCE_DETECTORS` | Comma-separated list of resource detector IDs to enable. See the [`autodetect` package](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/detectors/autodetect) for available detectors IDs and how to register your own. | Unset |

## Instrumentation options

| Environment variable                | Description                                            | Default value |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_INCLUDE_DB_STATEMENT` | Sets whether to include SQL queries in the trace data. |               |
| `OTEL_GO_AUTO_PARSE_DB_STATEMENT` | Sets whether to parse the SQL statement for trace data, setting `db.operation.name`. Only valid if `OTEL_GO_AUTO_INCLUDE_DB_STATEMENT` is also set. |               |

## Traces exporter

| Environment variable                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Default value |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER`                   | Comma-separated list of propagators. Supported values: `otlp`, `zipkin`, `console`, `logging`, `none`. See [the OpenTelemetry specification](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.35.0/specification/configuration/sdk-environment-variables.md#exporter-selection) for details. | `otlp`        |
| `OTEL_SPAN_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_LENGTH_LIMIT` | Maximum allowed attribute value size.                                                                                                                                                                        | No limit      |
| `OTEL_SPAN_ATTRIBUTE_COUNT_LIMIT`        | Maximum allowed span attribute count.                                                                                                                                                                        | `128`         |
| `OTEL_SPAN_LINK_COUNT_LIMIT`             | Maximum allowed span link count.                                                                                                                                                                             | `128`         |
| `OTEL_LINK_ATTRIBUTE_COUNT_LIMIT`        | Maximum allowed attribute per span link count.                                                                                                                                                               | `128`         |

## OTLP exporter

| Environment variable                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Default value               |
|---------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL`               | Defines the OTLP exporter's transport protocol. Supported values: `grpc`, `http/protobuf`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | `http/protobuf`             |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_PROTOCOL`        | Defines the OTLP exporter's transport protocol for the traces signal. Supported values: `grpc`, `http/protobuf`. The value of this environment variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL`.                                                                                                                                                                 | `http/protobuf`             |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`               | The endpoint where the exporter sends the telemetry data. The value must contain a host, and can additionally include a port, scheme, and path. You can use either `http` or `https`. The value must not contain a query string or fragment.                                                                                                                                | http/protobuf: `https://localhost:4318`, grpc: `http://localhost:4317`    |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT`        | The endpoint where the exporter sends the telemetry data. The value must contain a host, and can additionally include a port, scheme, and path. You can use either `http` or `https`. The value must not contain a query string or fragment. The value of this environment variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`.                                  | http/protobuf: `https://localhost:4318/v1/traces`, grpc: `http://localhost:4317`    |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE`               | Disables client transport security for the exporter's gRPC connection. You can use this only when an endpoint is provided without the `http` or `https` scheme.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `false`                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_INSECURE`        | Disables client transport security for the exporter's gRPC connection. You can use this only when an endpoint is provided without the `http or https` scheme. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE`.                                                                                                                                  | `false`                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`                | Key-value pairs used as gRPC metadata associated with gRPC requests. The value must be represented in a format matching the W3C Baggage HTTP Header Content Format, except that additional semi-colon delimited metadata is not supported. Example value: `"key1=value1,key2=value2"`.                                                                                       | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_HEADERS`         | Key-value pairs used as gRPC metadata associated with gRPC requests. The value must be represented in a format matching the W3C Baggage HTTP Header Content Format, except that additional semi-colon delimited metadata is not supported. Example value: `"key1=value1,key2=value2"`. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS`.           | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TIMEOUT`                | Maximum time in milliseconds the OTLP exporter waits for each batch export.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `10000`                   |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_TIMEOUT`         | Maximum time in milliseconds the OTLP exporter waits for each batch export. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TIMEOUT`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | `10000`                   |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION`            | The gRPC compressor that the exporter uses. Supported values: `gzip`, `none`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_COMPRESSION`     | The gRPC compressor that the exporter uses. Supported values: `gzip`, `none`. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION`.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CERTIFICATE`            | The filepath to the trusted certificate to be used when verifying a server's TLS credentials.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CERTIFICATE`     | The filepath to the trusted certificate to be used when verifying a server's TLS credentials. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CERTIFICATE`.                                                                                                                                                                                             | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE`     | The filepath to the client certificate or chain of trust for the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in the PEM format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Unset                      |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE` | The filepath to the client certificate or chain of trust for the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in the PEM format. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE`.                                                                                                                                             | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_KEY`             | The filepath to the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in PEM format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Unset                     |
| `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_CLIENT_KEY`      | The filepath to the client's private key to use for mTLS communication in PEM format. The value of this variable takes precedence over `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_CLIENT_KEY`.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Unset                     |
